[MUSIC]
Similar to COUNTIFS, SUMIFS can be
used to evaluate multiple criteria
across multiple ranges
when summing values.
Let's explore this functionality as
we work through problem number 4A.
Problem 4A first asks us
to sum total revenue for
sales of more than 100 items across
each of the three sales channels,
listed in column Bravo
of our exercise table.
We see that this implies multiple
criteria to evaluate when summing
firstly that the quantity of
items sold was greater than 100,
and secondly, that the sales channel is
equal to the values in column Bravo.
Let's parameterize SUMIFS to sum
revenue in our dataset by first
pointing it to the Revenue column.
Next, let's point it to the Quantity
column of the dataset and
tell it to only sum for
quantities greater than 100.
Next, we'll point SUMIFS to
the Sales Channel column of the dataset
and finally, tell it to sum for
only the Sales Channel listed in
the current row of our exercise table.
Setting SUMIFS to work,
we see that we produced sales of
$27,479.01 in online sales
of more than 100 items.
Let's now use SUMIFS to build
a table of total revenue from
all product sales by channel.
While the exercise table we've outlined
may seem a bit daunting at first, you'll
quickly see how easy it is to summarize
our data in this fashion using SUMIFS.
We are summing revenue again here.
So let's start by pointing SUMIFS to
the Revenue column of the dataset.
Next, we want the sum of revenue for
only the Sales Channel listed
in row 22 of our table.
Let's type a reference to the first cell,
Charlie 22,
and press F4 twice to lock
the row reference as absolute,
so we can copy our formula
throughout the exercise table.
Next, we want only the sum of revenue for
the current column Sales Channel and
for the Product listed in
column Bravo of our table.
Let's point SUMIFS to the Product
column of the dataset and tell it to
use as criteria the Product listed in
column Bravo of our exercise table.
With these parameters, we can set
SUMIFS to work for the online channel.
We see that the formula fills down
the column of our exercise table.
Because we have used a cell
reference to the sales channel,
we can also copy this formula to
the other columns of the table,
and it will automatically
update the calculations for
each respective sales channel.
Let's definitely pause here for
a moment to validate our answer.
There are two things we'll
want to validate now.
Firstly, if we have correctly
calculated total revenue for
all of our products in each channel,
the sum of revenue in this table
should be equal to the sum of
total revenue in the dataset.
This control total will help us be sure
we are summarizing all of our data.
Let's prove this out by selecting all of
our revenue calculations in this table and
comparing it to the total
revenue in our dataset.
We see $82,543 in total
revenue in our calculation.
If we compare this against the data
in the Revenue column of our dataset,
we note that the total
revenue is also $82,543.
We could, then, confirm the total
revenue we've calculated for
a given product and sales channel.
If we did so, we'd notice that we've
calculated this table correctly.
SUMIFS is another powerful tool
to help us summarize data.
We hope you'll spend time to
understand this very useful function.
Now it's your turn to
demonstrate your expanded
understanding of SUMIFS
by completing problem 4B.
[MUSIC]